.. _release_0.14.0:

0.14.0
------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Added a new ``AperturePlotter`` class in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module replacing the old one, with functionality to plot the aperture tolerances as calculated from the ``APERTURE`` command in ``MAD-X``, jointly with the lattice layout.
* Added a ``CrossingSchemePlotter`` class in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module, with functionality to plot the orbit crossings at LHC IPs.
* The new ``TuneDiagramPlotter.plot_tune_diagram`` function in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module is now more customisable, can be given a title, a figure size, add legends, differentiate between resonance lines of different orders and given a specific order up to which to plot resonance lines.

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Functions from the ``cpymadtools.latwiss`` module have into a class named ``LatticePlotter`` in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module.
* The old ``AperturePlotter`` class in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module has been renamed to ``BeamEnvelopePlotter`` to reflect its role, and functions in this class have also been renamed accordingly.
* The old ``TuneDiagramPlotter.plot_blank_tune_diagram`` function in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module has replaced the ``TuneDiagramPlotter.plot_tune_diagram`` function and taken its name.
* The phd matplotlib style has a new setting for legend.framealpha set at 0.9.
* The ``cpymadtools.latwiss`` module has been removed.
* The old ``TuneDiagramPlotter.plot_blank_tune_diagram`` function in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module has been removed.

See `v0.14.0 release notes on GitHub <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/releases/tag/0.14.0>`_ and the `full changes since v0.13.3 <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/compare/0.13.3...0.14.0>`_.
