.. _release_0.17.0:

0.17.0
------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.matching` module has two new wrapper functions, `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.matching.match_tunes` and `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.matching.match_chromaticities`, to perform matching on either tunes or chromaticities only.
* The `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc` module has a new utility function, `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc.get_magnets_powering`, to get the percentage of magnets' max powering used in a given configuration.
* The `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.utils` module has a new function, `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.utils.export_madx_table`, to conveniently export an internal table to disk with proper regex filtering in a way that can be read by ``MAD-X`` later on. 
* The `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.constants` module now includes a regex for the `(HL)LHC` triplets. Beware that ``MAD-X`` itself does not understand all regex features.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.twiss.get_pattern_twiss` function now properly handles being given specific *columns*.

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* The deprecated `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc.match_no_coupling_through_ripkens` function has been removed, its replacement in the `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.coupling` module should be used.
* The deprecated `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc._get_k_strings` function has been removed, its replacement in the `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.utils` module should be used.
* The deprecated `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.matching.get_closest_tune_approach` function has been removed, its replacement in the `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.coupling` module should be used.
* The deprecated `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.matching.get_lhc_tune_and_chroma_knobs` function has been removed, its replacement in the `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc` module should be used.
* The `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc._get_k_strings` helper function is now deprecated and has been moved to `pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.utils._get_k_strings`.
* The internal imports in the package have been reworked, and sub-packages now only expose their modules through ``__all__`` opposed to some modules' contents previously.
* Some tests have been added.

See `v0.17.0 release notes on GitHub <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/releases/tag/0.17.0>`_ and the `full changes since v0.16.1 <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/compare/0.16.1...0.17.0>`_.
