.. _release_0.18.0:

0.18.0
------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `pyhdtoolkit.utils._misc` module has a new function, `~pyhdtoolkit.utils._misc.add_markers_around_lhc_ip` to add `MAD-X` markers around a given IP in order to increase the resolution of the TWISS calls in the IP vicinity.
* The `pyhdtoolkit.utils._misc` module has a new function, `~pyhdtoolkit.utils._misc.get_lhc_ips_positions`, to determine the longitudinal position (S variable) of LHC IPs from a dataframe.
* The `pyhdtoolkit.utils._misc` module has a new function, `~pyhdtoolkit.utils._misc.draw_ip_locations`, to add labels with the location of LHC IPs to a given `~matplotlib.axes.Axes` object.
* The `LHC Rigid Waist Shift` gallery has been improved, and now shows a visualization of the waist shift and two ways to calculate its value.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.orbit.lhc_orbit_variables` function does not return a wrong `on_phi_IR5` variable anymore.

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* The dependency on `matplotlib` has been pinned to `<3.5` to avoid issues with the documentation plot style, to be fixed later on. 
* The bibliography file for the package's documentation has been cleaned up.
* The GitHub icon in the documentation pages now redirects to the proper pages.
* The documentation for the `~pyhdtoolkit.maths.nonconvex_phase_sync` has been improved.
* Some additional files necessary for the documentation additions are now included in the repo, but not the package.

See `v0.18.0 release notes on GitHub <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/releases/tag/0.18.0>`_ and the `full changes since v0.17.0 <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/compare/0.17.0...0.18.0>`_.
