.. _release_0.15.0:

0.15.0
------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The ``LatticePlotter.plot_latwiss`` function in the ``cpymadtools.plotters`` module can now plot the k1 gradient of dipoles that have one if asked which will appear with a lower alpha than regular quadrupoles. A new boolean parameter *plot_dipole_k1* is used for this.
* Type hints have been added to all elements of the ``cpymadtools.constants`` module.
* A new module, ``cpymadtools.correctors``, has been added with currently functionality to query LHC triplet and arc corrector powering status (relatively to their max powering).
* A new function, ``reset_bump_flags`` in the ``cpymadtools.special`` module which will reset all LHC IP bump flags to 0.
* Several new constants have been introduced in the ``cpymadtools.constants`` module:

  - Supplementing the ``DEFAULT_TWISS_COLUMNS`` list, a similar but slightly different one, ``MONITOR_TWISS_COLUMNS``, has been added with elements present in OMC macros.
  - Constants lists for LHC IP bump flags have been added: ``LHC_CROSSING_ANGLE_FLAGS``, ``LHC_PARALLEL_SEPARATION_FLAGS``, ``LHC_IP_OFFSET_FLAGS``, ``LHC_ANGLE_FLAGS``, ``LHC_EXPERIMENT_STATE_FLAGS`` and ``LHC_IP2_SPECIAL_FLAGS``.
  - Constants list for LHC triplets corrector knobs have been added: ``LHC_KQSX_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCSX_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCSSX_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCOX_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCOSX_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCTX_KNOBS`` with their signification in comments.
  - Constants list for LHC arc corrector knobs have been added: ``LHC_KQTF_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KQS_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KSF_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KSS_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCS_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCO_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KCD_KNOBS``, ``LHC_KO_KNOBS`` with their signification in comments.

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* The ``CORRECTOR_LIMITS`` dict of dict in the ``cpymadtools.constants`` module has been changed to a simple dictionary and renamed ``HLLHC_CORRECTOR_LIMITS`` as it only contained HighLumi values.
* Exceptions are properly logged as exceptions, with stack information.
* The entire ``cpymadtools.special`` module is deprecated, and its contents have been mirrored in a new ``cpymadtools.lhc`` module. Users are encouraged to use the new module, as ``cpymadtools.special`` will be removed in a future release.

See `v0.15.0 release notes on GitHub <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/releases/tag/0.15.0>`_ and the `full changes since v0.14.1 <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/compare/0.14.1...0.15.0>`_.
