.. _release_1.1.0:

1.1.0
-----

Release `1.1.0` brings some changes to match the adapted extracted API for `beamopticsanalysis/cpymadtools`.
Code using ``pyhdtoolkit`` will need to be adapted.

Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.correctors`, `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.errors`, `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.orbit` and `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.setup` modules has been removed and their functionality included in `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc`, as it was ``LHC``-specific.
* The `~pyhdtoolkit.plotting.generators` module has been made private.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc.prepare_lhc_run2` function now properly calls the found sequence file.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc.do_kmodulation` function now accepts ``kwargs`` that will be passed down to the ``TWISS`` call.

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Documentation has been updated for all new APIs. Refer to the gallery for example uses.
* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools._generators` being now private, they have been removed from the public API documentation.
* Tests and internal API usehave been adapted.
* Some style parameters in `~pyhdtoolkit.plotting.styles.paper` have been adapted.
* The `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc` module has been split up into many smaller *private* modules. The functionality of the APIs is unchanged, and they are still exposed at the `~pyhdtoolkit.cpymadtools.lhc` level.


See `v1.1.0 release notes on GitHub <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/releases/tag/1.1.0>`_ and the `full changes since v1.0.0 <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/compare/1.0.0...1.1.0>`_.
