.. _release_1.8.0:

Release `1.8.0` brings some project maintenance and a complete refactor of the `HTCondor`-related utilities from the package.

Removals
~~~~~~~~

* The `pyhdtoolkit.utils.htc_monitor` module has been removed, and its functionality split.

Additions
~~~~~~~~~

* A new module, `pyhdtoolkit.utils.htcondor`, has been created to host all `HTCondor`-related utilities. The previous `htc_monitor` module's functionality has been moved here, with some improvements.
* A new command-line script, `htcondor-monitor`, has been added to provide an easy way to monitor `HTCondor` clusters from the terminal. It contains the entrypoint from the previous `pyhdtoolkit.utils.htc_monitor` module, adapted to the new module structure.
* The new script allows passing command-line options to customize its behavior (see its documentation and help message for details).
* The new scripts provides a progress bar while waiting between `condor_q` calls.
* The new script is declared as `htc-monitor` in the project metadata. It can be called simply as `htc-monitor` at the command line in an environment where `PyhDToolkit` is installed.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The regex parsing in the `HTCondor` utilities has been made more robust.
* The whole package now consistently makes use of postponed evaluations of annotations (see PEP 563).
* Some operations have been fixed to adapt to the default behaviors of `pandas 3.x`.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The documentation has been adapted to reflect the new module structure and command-line script.

Maintenance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Updated Continuous Integration workflows to switch to `uv`, speeding up CI runs.

See `v1.8.0 release notes on GitHub <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/releases/tag/1.8.0>`_ and the `full changes since v1.7.0 <https://github.com/fsoubelet/PyhDToolkit/compare/1.7.0...1.8.0>`_.
